Does anyone have any
questions about Terraform or
Pulumi before I go forward, yes?
>> Is there any kind of
testing framework for Pulumi?
>> Good question, whichever one you want.
[LAUGH] The reality of it is,
is because it's the language you're
working on top of,
it can use those same test suites, right?
So if you wanted to, you could say, all
right, well, you could actually do just
testing with Pulumi if you really wanted
to, because it's just unit testing.
You don't actually have to
create those resources.
But you could say,
okay, I have a module that handles all
of my, a common one is that I do a lot,
which is called conventions, which is
just a file of all of my conventions.
How I separate things,
how I uppercase and lowercase things.
And then I have functions that
I just reuse in all of my code.
Can I do that in Terraform?
Not really,
that's a little bit more challenging.
So when we go back to testing and
all that stuff, same thing applies.
So it depends on the language,
but yeah, you totally can, yeah.
>> Are there any workflow differences
between Terraform and Pulumi?
>> The biggest workflow difference is
gonna be based off of the language.
For example,
if you build Pulumi automation in Go,
you actually have to
build that to a binary.
It can't just read the Go code
like it can with TypeScript and
things like that, and
that's because of how it works.
When you do it with Pulumi,
you build it down to a binary, and
then the CLI tool actually talks to that
binary, which is pretty interesting.
Whereas with Terraform, it's still
the same process of install your packages,
you still have to do that.
But there's no package, again,
there's no package.json.
There's no having to set up any
of that stuff really at all
specific to the language, yeah.
>> Do syntaxes change for Terraform and
Pulumi based on the underlying
APIs from the cloud providers?
>> Terraform, no, not really.
Terraform is really good
at not changing stuff.
They know that we
are a configuration-based system,
if we change those configurations,
everything breaks.
[LAUGH] And so Terraform does actually
do a really great job at this.
With Pulumi, you're gonna always
have a bit more work to do,
depending on the language and
the specific circumstance you pick.
>> Is this scenario of potentially
migrating from one approach to the other,
like going from Pulumi to Terraform, or
relevant factor in choosing
one to start with?
>> You should try and
avoid it, you really should.
The reason for that is, is because
both of them maintain state, right?
In the moment you provision something,
it's there, right?
And now, Terraform or
Pulumi are tracking that state.
So for us right now at Hippo,
we have probably like 30,
40 Terraform Repos, and
they all have their own state.
So if I wanted to move our
networks to Pulumi, for example,
I would have to write
the automation identically so
that when I apply it over in Pulumi,
it doesn't change for starters.
And then the second thing I have
to do is I actually have to import
those resources into my state,
because they exist, right?
Otherwise, if I tell Pulumi to run it,
it's gonna try and create something that
it doesn't know about, but
Terraform already created, right?
So that's the caveat to moving from
one automation tool to another,
is if you have existing state,
it can be very, very challenging, yeah.
>> How sustainable is it having
infrastructure written in several
different languages when using Pulumi,
and when do you have a policy
around choosing one language?
>> Yeah, you probably would.
At Hippo,
our languages that I was like, guys,
we got to pick, are Node.js,
Python, and Go.
We have no interest in Rust, sorry.
[LAUGH] We have no interest in Rust, and
we have no interest in Java, any of those
other languages, because we've been
building on top of them for so long.
So I think it does make sense to kinda
go to your team and be like, hey,
yeah, feel free to use languages,
but maybe don't get crazy.
[LAUGH] We have no infrastructure for,
again, maybe a specific language.
Then that becomes what we
call at my work a snowflake,
which is a unique experience that
then has to be managed on its own,
does anyone know what that becomes?
>> Tech debt [LAUGH].
>> Yes, but it's also another word?
>> Loser?
>> Something knowledge.
>> [INAUDIBLE] knowledge?
>> Tribal knowledge?
>> Tribal knowledge, yeah, close.
But yeah, tribal knowledge,
where it becomes like,
if you want the guy who did it,
you gotta find the guy who did it.
[LAUGH] You know what I mean?
So I do think being aware of those
decisions will make sure that you
can interrupt between multiple
languages really well, yeah.
>> There's a good comment in
chat around using the AWS CLI.
>> Yeah.
>> They're just saying that
you could technically use
AWS CLI to create your resources, but
that's time consuming and manual.
If you scale, you'll wanna automate your
infrastructure to not repeat the same
things over and over again.
>> Exactly, yeah, exactly,
yeah, I mean, my job or
DevOps' job is really just doing what
you're doing manually and automating it.
And that can be as simple as clicking
a button to solving the problem.
And if you look at it that way,
then yes, they're absolutely right, and
I agree with them.
If you really wanted to, if you wanted
to go really, really crazy with it,
you'd basically be recreating Terraform,
[LAUGH] if you think about it,
right, because that's what Terraform does.
Underneath the hood, it contacts
the APIs and it does all that for you.
But if you wanted to,
sure, you could write a for
loop that runs this AWS CLI command over,
and over, and over, and over, and
over, and over, but I don't know
how well that'll work, so, yeah.
>> Just on the topic of state management,
I feel like every time I've worked with
Terraform, that's been
the biggest struggle?
>> Yes, it is.
>> Is this any easier than Pulumi?
>> No, [LAUGH] no,
that's the burden of state.
It's not easier in a React application
that uses state management.
Unfortunately, state
management is really annoying.
And I will talk about it later with
things like Kubernetes, right,
cuz Kubernetes has its own state, but
then you've also got Terraform state.
How do you make those two work?
Always try and
have one source of truth, one, right?
That will probably help you a lot
with that kinda stuff, yeah.